[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE AND CHEERING]
>> Well, thank you.
You know when I first got
the invitation for "Contact
in the Desert," I actually
misread the email.
I thought it was an invitation
to "Contact in the Dessert."
[LAUGHTER]
Imagine my shock, and
horror, and disappointment.
Never mind, that's how we go.
So, but welcome.
This is a subject
that obviously I've
been doing for a very,
very, very, very long time.
I wrote a book on
it which becomes
an international bestseller
called "Secrets in the Fields,"
which, incredibly, comes out
the same day as a film called,
"Signs."
totally by accident, we think.
[LAUGHTER]
Before you know it,
people connected the dots
and they realized,
oh, it's not two guys
with a piece of board and
some string doing this.
[LAUGHTER]
So that's why we're here today.
I want to go back into
some of the information
that we gathered over the years,
which is still relevant today
as it was back then, and it
still continues to be relevant.
Because this phenomena--
unlike many others--
has no expiry date.
It's still something that's
so relevant to our involvement
in consciousness down
here on the Earth.
And I believe that's one of
the reasons why it's actually
happening across the
face of the Earth.
So at the beginning,
what I wanted to do
is to bring something into focus
that we tend to forget about.
And that is, we tend to
look at the sky for signs
of alien contact.
But we often forget to look
really, really close to home.
You know what I'm saying?
We sit outside and look out--
you know, sit outside looking
at the Milky Way and wondering,
you know, is someone coming
down here to help us out?
And the fact is the help
is actually all around us
all the time.
And when we do actually
look closer to home,
we wonder why, if the circle
makes us so intelligent,
why don't they
communicate in something
like a global language?
Like English, for example.
You know, it's the one
thing that I get back again
and again and again.
If they're so advanced, then
why not just make it direct?
Why make it so difficult?
Well, think about
it for a second.
[MUSIC PLAYING INDISTINCTLY]
[LAUGHTER]
I'm not that good.
It's like Lawrence of Arabia
is next door or something.
[LAUGHTER]
[LAUGHS] Oh, dear.
>> Phone home.
>> Call home, Lawrence.
[LAUGHS] Well, think about
language for a second.
I mean, words are
very problematic.
I mean, originally,
in the old, old days,
words were kind of used to
reflect original truths,
and ideas, as well.
But people kind of lost
sight of the true meaning
of words over the
ages to the point
where today language
is kind of used to--
well, it's used for convenience,
like, you know, like, you know.
You know, especially with
the world of texting.
It's also very, very convenient.
And the language, and
the syntax, and the--
even the amount of
words that we use today,
they're done just for
convenience for communication.
That's one problem.
The other problem is that there
are problems in translations.
Now if you ever tried
sending an email
and going through
Google Translate
and having it come out
in French, or German,
or Japanese--
you ever had that experience?
And the lack of-- and the
problems that it causes through
lack of direct communication?
That's another reason why
they're not communicating
in a direct language.
I remember one
example in Paris when
they were having a problem
with water and the drought.
And there's a famous sign
outside a French restaurant.
And it said, the
manager has personally
passed the water
in this restaurant.
[LAUGHTER]
I don't think that's
what he meant.
So words, again, they can
be deceiving and deceitful,
especially when we have to
communicate over each other.
And we have here a
global phenomenon.
And yet to have it
being communicated
in one specific
language, you can
see how the problems multiply.
Now, on the other hand,
if you use symbol,
you're actually on a much more
firm platform because a symbol
cannot be translated.
A symbol is a direct
expression of its own function.
And symbols by their very
nature are mysterious.
And we, as humans,
are programmed
to be attracted
to the mysterious.
I mean, that's why we're
here at this weekend.
Because the symbols,
when they hide mystery,
they are concealing something.
And we are fascinated by
what's being concealed.
We want to get to the
truth of what's really
behind what's being said.
Well, once you start looking
at what's being concealed,
that arouses your curiosity.
And the more curious you
become, the more in depth
you go into the subject.
And once your
curiosity takes over,
then that leads to inquiry,
and eventually to insights.
And once you've
achieved an insight
through the decoding
of a symbol,
then you achieve revelation.
And that's what we're
trying to get to.
And a lot of the crop
circles and the symbols
that people have interacted
with over the years,
it's the same story every--
all the time.
I have reached a level
of self empowerment,
a sense of revelation.
I've learned something about
myself or the world I live in.
It comes up again
and again and again.
It seems as though
they're acting
on a very intuitive level,
which I'll demonstrate shortly.
And this is the reason primarily
why symbols have lasted so long
for our ancient societies.
Clifford Mahooty and I usually
have interesting conversations
about this, about the symbols
found in the Native American
Southwest.
It's a fascinating area.
Now I'm getting clapping
from the other room.
This is--
[LAUGHTER]
Hollywood music.
Clapping.
I like it here.
I might come back.
[LAUGHTER]
Despite the fact that
there's no dessert.
[LAUGHTER]
And this is why the
symbols lasted so long
in ancient cultures because
they represent archetypal ideas
from culture to culture.
So even today, when you travel
around the Native American
Southwest or in the
Aboriginal areas of Australia,
the symbols are
self-referencing.
Even though we have
different cultures,
they still are able to
decipher what they mean,
because they are
ingrained in this culture.
And the funny
thing is, the irony
is, that it was
people like the Hopi
and the Zuni who
originally helped
us to understand what the
early crop circles were about.
And for every single
crop circle that
appeared in the early
years of the phenomenon,
we have a direct correspondence
to an actual petroglyph
in the Native American Southwest
or in the Australian Outback.
And this is what helps us
to understand that we've
been given a kind of language.
And because the symbols
are already understood,
we could then understand
that the early prototypes
of the crop circles
were simply telling us,
this is a message from
a level of reality
that you would call gods.
Not God, not The One, but gods.
What we also began to call
the archangels and guiding
principles through life.
So whenever we saw two
crop circles created,
joined by a line, the
same thing happens
in Native American expression
in the symbols there,
because they talked
about how this
is used to symbolize that
there's communication
from an upward level of reality,
from heaven, communicating
to a lower level of
reality, called the Earth.
And that's when it dawned
on those that we were being
communicated with by, let's
say for lack of a better word,
an extraterrestrial source.
And, in fact, if you travel
through the world of the Zuni
and the Hopi regions
of Arizona, there
are symbolic communications
between the tribes people
and the star people.
And these are usually seen
in some of the petroglyphs
around the three Hopi mesas.
One of them that I'm
particularly keen on
is this particular circle.
This series of circles here.
This symbol describes
the function
of what they call
flying shields.
And if you read a very good book
called "The Book of the Hopi,"
which I totally recommend,
they actually describe how
before the flood--
about 11,000 years ago--
the Hopi did connect
with the star people.
And they showed
them that there was
a certain type of
technology here
that was used and
abused in the last days.
And one of them was some
kind of levitating technology
which the Hopi called
flying shields,
because that's the nearest
expression that they had
to look at these flying
disks and the only thing they
could relate to was what
they already had with them.
So this circle and all
of its little appendages,
and the little
symbols on the side--
you can see them right there--
they all appear
right here, as well.
And just in case this is still--
this was faked, there's
a local village that--
it's about half a mile away.
It's a small hamlet actually.
It's not even big enough to
be qualified as a village.
In the middle of the
night, the local farmer,
he heard a lot of buzzing
sounds, strange noises.
A sort of a beam of
light coming down
in the middle of the field.
It's a massive, massive
wheat field by the way.
It's sort of the least populated
part of the British Isles.
And next morning, no
car in the village--
sorry, the hamlet.
I'm elevating a
hamlet to a village.
[LAUGHTER]
All the cars in this
hamlet could not
start because all their
batteries were dead.
That's usually a good
sign that it's a real one.
If you ever take electric
equipment into a real crop
circle, well, you might
as well keep the receipt
because you want to send
the camera because it's
a very expensive phenomenon.
It acts on anything
that's electronic.
So that's one of the
reasons why we knew-- apart
from the ground features, which
I'll describe in a second.
Going back to the reason--
in fact, the people
who these are supposed
to depict in the Hopi regions,
my good friend Clifford
tells me that,
well, these people
that we're depicting in the
petroglyphs are called Lookers.
And you know them because you
have them in England, as well.
They called the Watchers.
And these are the people
that also appear around
11,000 years ago, just
before a big flood consumes
the whole of the Earth.
And I'm not talking about
the 200 Watchers that
came down, stayed on the
Earth, and did some very, very
silly things with genetics.
We're not talking about those.
We're talking about
the original group
of people who are called the
Watchers because they're here
to guide humanity.
That's essentially what the
Native American cultures
describe as being
the fundamental star
people that they
communicate with
and also the fundamental
consciousness now
of who's behind the core
group of the phenomenon.
Now much of the communication
that we see in the crop circle
world is actually based
on the universal language
of mathematics, and it's
visual expression, geometry,
especially a very
complex geometry,
like Ptolemy's
theorem of chords.
The gentleman who deciphered
this information--
Gerald Hawkins, the late Gerald
Hawkins, Boston University's
Astronomer General--
wrote one of the most
incredible books on Stonehenge
back in the '60s, he
is actually the one
that was predominately
involved in decoding
the mathematical information
in the crop circles.
And it could also differentiate
a hoax from a real one
just by the amount
of mathematics
or the lack of inside them.
And he said to me over a
nice lunch in Washington, DC
at a gentlemen's club--
it was the height
of my personal ego
to go to a gentlemen's club.
[LAUGHTER]
They even move your drink
for you, from table to table.
You can play games with them.
You know, it's like, nah, I
think I want to go over there.
And they follow
you with a drink.
It's wonderful.
You're not allowed to
touch your own glass.
But apart from
that, he said, well,
this is very interesting, this
particular design, because it
encodes this theorem, which
is really, really difficult
to create on a piece of paper.
Now why would anyone
do this in the middle
of the night using an
imprecise canvas called wheat?
And he had a very good point.
If you're going to try
and convince academics
that you are very clever, why
not submit your dissertation
and have it peer reviewed?
Rather than stay out for
five hours of total darkness
and try plank it in
a field of wheat?
This is how he approached
the subject from the hoax
point of view.
And by the time you're
finished with the arguments,
you're left with very
little impression
that actually humans
could really do this.
Clever guy.
But what Gerald Hawkins also
did was very interesting
because he actually
discovered for the first time
since the time of the Greeks--
I'm talking about I
think it's 100 BC here--
that he's found four
new geometric theorems
based on the works of Euclid.
Now Euclid is the
fundamental basis
of our entire knowledge of
mathematics in the world today.
And what he found was that these
theorems are actually not found
in Euclid's 13 books
on mathematics,
which is kind of weird.
Because he said,
well, by logic--
and Euclid is a
pretty clever guy.
He said, well, by logic, Euclid
would have actually figured
these next four theorems.
And I found them
in crop circles.
I thought, well,
that's interesting.
What else, Gerald?
He said, well, this
is really clever.
I actually in a
moment of-- you know,
I'm sure you call
it something else,
but I'll call it
"consciousness moment"--
he said, I've
actually worked out
that if you extrapolate
from these four new theorems
in the crop circles by logic,
there's a fifth theorem, which
you should get to quite easily.
And he published a theorem--
actually, he didn't publish.
He put the challenge in a book--
I think it was a
magazine that was
read by 200,000 mathematicians
around the world.
And he said, let's think
about this for a second.
If people are
making crop circles.
Then it's very difficult to
create a mathematical theorem,
let alone make one in the
middle of the night in wheat.
So how come these
four theorems exist?
In fact, how come we can
now take these four theorems
and create a fifth
theorem from them?
And I will buy anybody
a crate of champagne
if you can tell me
how to extrapolate
this fifth theorem that does
not exist from these four.
So that was the test.
Well, weeks went by.
Nobody cracked the code.
On the fourth week,
this thing appears
in the middle of England.
And it actually has
the theorem in it.
[LAUGHTER]
So it's a bit of a
joke going on here.
And it happens all the time.
And it makes you wonder who's
watching what we're doing?
Because they have a
nasty habit of doing this
stuff all the time.
So again, 200,000 mathematicians
peer reviewed this paper.
And they said,
well, the conclusion
is that obviously there must be
another explanation to boards
and pieces of string because
this theorem is pretty damn
difficult, and it doesn't exist
in our mathematical knowledge
today.
I thought that was
pretty impressive
until one day this beautiful
little thing shows up not
far from where I used to live.
There were two-- I want
to call them engineers.
Yes, they were engineers.
One is a physicist.
And they're from London.
And it also got their
attention, and why not?
I mean, it's
absolutely delicious.
You want to almost eat it.
We're back to dessert again.
[LAUGHTER]
They thought, this is
really interesting.
They got on the car.
They drove a two and 1/2 hours
to the middle of Wilshire,
because something
about this design
really got their attention.
I mean, they just put
down all of their papers.
And they thought,
let's go and do this.
And they began to measure it--
rulers, all that kind of
stuff, laser pointers.
They took down all
the measurements.
And then the farmer came over
and said, oi, do you know,
there's already been another
crop circle up here last night
in a field next door.
Really?
And he showed them a photograph.
It's absolutely identical.
In fact, here they are, side
by side, the two crop circles.
So whoever was making it had
a lot of time on their hands.
They did one, and then
they went to the next field
and made it again.
And they went and measured
the second design.
And they had a series
of discrepancies-- small
discrepancies between
the two designs.
So being engineers, and
mathematicians, and physicists,
they began to look at the
numbers, as they tend to do.
And they realized,
wait a minute.
There's a series
of numbers here,
which is actually
telling us what we
know about the speed of light.
So they began to look at the
second series of numbers.
And they thought, well,
if you extrapolate this,
you should be able to get
this, which is basically
the second speed of light.
And the third series of numbers
is the third speed of light.
So they put this to a
peer reviewed panel.
They got laughed out
of the room, of course.
I mean, you know, hoaxes can't
possibly be knowing anything
about physics.
And there is only
one speed of light.
We don't have a second speed
of light, let alone a third.
And would you believe that
five years later, someone,
somewhere, some physicist
somewhere in the world,
presented a paper.
They said, well,
actually light travels
in two different speeds.
So whoever put this down here
is three steps ahead of us.
And that was the first
inkling that we've
been given information
that's trying
to advance our
understanding of how
we understand the world because
we know so little of it.
For example, we hardly know
anything about gravity.
It's a mysterious substance.
The world is covered
by 2/3 of water
and yet we know so little about
this wondrous and mysterious
substance.
And when we find out about
it, it is truly mysterious,
and it can do
extraordinary things.
So by now we begin to realize
that the circle makers have
a very high
intellectual profile,
and certainly beyond two
guys that were drinking beer
in a pub in Hampshire
that said that they made
all the world's crop circles--
on the same night, on
three different continents,
by the way.
[LAUGHTER]
Oh, you didn't know that story?
Yeah, Doug and Dave at a
press meeting, they once said,
oh, yeah, we made this
particular design.
And we went, OK.
What about this one?
Because we haven't published
the information on this one.
Oh, yeah, we made that one, too.
Oh, really?
And what about this one?
Well, we made that one, as well.
Are you sure about this?
Yes.
OK.
Well, this one was
in England on July 1.
This one on July
1 was in France.
And this one is in America.
How did you manage to
cross over three continents
and create in a few hours
of darkness in the summer
three incredible crop circles?
Because if you can do that,
we're going to analyze you.
[LAUGHTER]
Oh, the whole story
about Doug and Dave
is a farce that's beyond belief.
In fact, back in the day when
their story first came out,
the tabloids in
Britain, they actually--
the quality press after
they heard the story of Doug
and Dave, they
said, and I quote,
I have more ability to
believe in little green men
than I do in believing the
story that Doug and Dave
had made all the crop circles.
[LAUGHTER]
And that was back then when
the conversation was still
open minded.
Today, it's a very
different story, of course.
Moving forward, One.
Of my particular favorites.
Some of these designs
actually reveal information
about our own planets.
Because sometimes what you
see is not what you get,
it's what's encoded in it.
And a lot of it, again, is
mathematical and geometrical.
This particular design has
a number of geometries.
One is the pentagram, which
is hardwired in the elements,
which are flattened.
And you can see the
relationship of the gaps
in between the areas
that are risen,
and the ones that are flattened.
The pentagram is essentially the
geometry of living organisms.
And also, the hexagram,
which is the geometry
of non-living organisms, such
as crystals, for example.
Pentagram, hexagram,
mathematically, well, that's
a 6:5 ratio.
What are they trying to tell us?
In fact, it's very,
very important.
Because the 6:5 ratio
is an importance ratio
in the creation of
life on the planet.
We on Earth are the only planet
that have this relationship.
And I'm going to show you here
in a little graphic because--
I'm sure like most of you--
I did not do well with numbers
and mathematics at school.
I have to have a diagram
and then I get it.
[LAUGHTER]
This is why the 6:5 relationship
is very, very important.
You've probably
heard the story again
and again and again about the
Earth's processional cycle.
It's really to do with
the way that the Earth
moves in space, imperceptibly
over 25,920 years.
And it basically
rotates on its axis
in a period of a
slow wobble that's
imperceptible over the
course of 72 years.
So in your own
lifetime, unless you're
paying really close
attention, you'll
only notice that the background
stars relative to the horizon
have moved one degree
in your lifetime.
So it takes a lot of
observation to understand that.
The next observation is that
while the planet is tilting
on its axis, it also moves.
Around the equator, it moves
four degrees imperceptibly
over 21,600 years.
That's the ratio that
creates 6:5 or 5:6,
if you divide the numbers
one to themselves.
And that ratio is what
allows organic life
to be created on the planet.
That's why you don't find
this ratio in other planets
in the Solar System.
And that's why sometimes
the simplest information
in the crop circles can lead you
to such a momentous discovery
of something that we really
should be very aware of.
And certainly, our ancestors
were totally aware of it.
For example, the
whole understanding
of how pyramids were built, how
the ancient temples were built.
They are all related to
this processional cycle.
They already understood
this 11,000 years ago.
And here's the rub--
how would you know, if you
only see this moving one degree
every 72 years,
it means you have
to be on Earth for 26,000
years just to be aware
that the phenomenon exists.
How about this?
A beautiful chakra design.
It literally represents
the total unfolding
of light in the Hindu tradition.
But you know what?
There's something very
different about this design.
Because if you were going
to put this on paper,
you are going to construct it
using the golden ratio spiral.
Now if you're not aware of
the golden ratio spiral,
is the mathematical
progression that nature
uses to create its own
natural logarithmic spiral
in every living organism.
This particular
design is created
by rotating 22 golden ratio
spirals in contrarotation
to create that crossover.
One of them is pretty
difficult enough.
22 of them is really difficult.
Because every time you
take a board and
a piece of string,
you have to rotate it in
the ratio of one to 1.614.
Try keeping that consistent.
The rest of the design
is created with 14 rings
that come out from the center.
So when you start adding
these numbers together,
you get 44 over 14, or halve
that for simplicity, 22 over 7,
which, of course, is the
basic understanding of pi.
But here's the
bit I really like.
And this is why it pays
attention to look at the detail
very closely.
The two spirals touch exactly--
they meet exactly down the
center at this weird angle,
called 32.72.
That's a very specific
piece of design.
So I did a bit of
research on this.
What is this weird
angle all about?
It turns out that it points to
the understanding of gravity.
Now when you get
bored, as you do
when you live in Maine, as I
do, and in the winter, which
is really, really, really long.
[LAUGHTER]
You get bored and you
start doing things
like taking a salt
cellar and you
pour the salt on your table.
And you watch the
salt pouring, pouring.
This is why Stephen King
writes the way he does.
My neighbor, up the road.
Anyway, so you watch sand,
salt, anything on a table.
And you look at that wonderful
cone shape that it makes.
It makes this lovely cone shape.
This is-- actually
this is not me
doing the thing with
the salt seller.
That's actually the
snow on my deck,
again falling naturally
over an object,
and it starts to
form this cone shape
with a slope angle of 32.72.
The weird thing is-- because
my other part of my research is
to do with ancient sacred sites
and ancient civilizations--
I thought, where have I
seen this shape before?
This angle?
It turns out that so many of
the world's sacred mountains--
and specifically the ones
that are deemed to be sacred--
actually their slope
angle seems to conform
to that exact same ratio.
And then I met an
engineer one day.
And he said, actually,
we know this.
In physics, it's called
the angle of repose.
And we use it in the
construction industry
all the time.
But it's essentially telling
us how matter influences
fine substances to make their
natural repose, their way they
lie down on top of
each other, and it
creates this natural angle.
So he was totally
fascinated by this.
So I took it a
little stage further.
I discovered that DNA is
a very interesting thing.
And there's an angle
that's actually
inherent in the DNA spiral.
In its normal stage, the angle
of rotation of the DNA spiral
is about 34.6 degrees.
Now one of the key
observations that people
make when they
visit crop circles
is that they get
very dehydrated,
which of course affects the
body in many, many ways.
But when you start dehydrating
the actual DNA molecule,
very weird things start to
happen to this because it
causes a change to the
angle of this spiral,
and it changes to 32.72.
Now here's the rub--
because DNA provides
all the codes
the body needs to survive.
So if people who come into
contact with the crop circles
are describing being altered in
some way, which they do, then
perhaps they're right.
They are experience something
at the very physical level.
And it also implies that there
is information being exchanged
between the crop circles and the
human body on a genetic level.
Can we prove this?
No, it's speculation
at the moment.
We're just going where the
facts are taking us right now.
However, I did have an
interesting conversation
with a very short guy who people
think is actually really tall
called Gregg Braden.
He's only about this high.
[LAUGHTER]
It's the hair, you see.
And we're having this
interesting conversation
about this particular
crop circle which
it got his attention.
I said I wasn't really
interested in crop circles.
But then I saw a
picture of this.
And I thought, wait a minute.
This is very interesting.
And I said, well,
between you and me, Greg,
we actually thought it was
actually a drunk farmer going
around with a garden roller.
[LAUGHTER]
But, you know, you do the work.
You have to go and
take a look at it.
It turns out, it's
the real thing.
Now every time the
circle makers have
made things which
differ from normal,
we stumble upon some
huge new understanding.
And this is what
was happening here.
Because what he said to me
was this particular design
appears to be matching strategic
breaks in human DNA which
are waiting to be coded.
And I said, have you
got a diagram for that?
Yes.
Yes, I do.
[LAUGHS] And he said,
well, it matches
places in DNA which are
not coded for protein.
And his point is actually
I think very valid.
Because what he was
saying is, if you
take the map of human DNA and
you look at what's in there,
God the creator,
the source, does not
create things without reason.
There's a function
for everything.
Everything in nature,
form follows function.
And we, as human beings,
are part of that expression.
So why would you
leave these nine gaps,
these points of protein,
in the human DNA
where nothing happens?
It's as though they're
waiting to be triggered
by a future event or
some kind of development
in our evolution.
And I thought, well, that's
actually a very good point.
Because now with
the crop circles
happening at a particular
pinch point in our history
where you can feel it.
Things are coming
to a head right now.
We are in serious trouble.
So his point was that if
you take this crop circle
and you measure the
actual flattened areas,
and where you get an actual
break where nothing happens,
where the crop is
still standing,
if you take those
breaks and place them
as a percentage of
where they occur
on the design relative to
the human DNA molecule,
they hit exactly the nine parts
of the human molecule which
are not coded for protein.
And I thought, that's a
very lucid point you just
made there.
We took this little
stage further.
I got in contact with
biogeneticists in China
who are also looking
at this specific idea.
And it amazed them because
they were keeping very quiet
about some secret
experiments they were doing
over there as they tend to do.
And they found that a change in
the local bio-electromagnetic
field changes the information
that is received by DNA.
And what the Chinese found is
that in laboratory experiments,
genetic information has already
been transmitted successfully
from one organism to
the other by altering
the frequency of the local
electromagnetic spectrum.
Consider the implications here.
Because we treat crop circles
as living organisms because they
are also electromagnetic
and they can be measured.
That's what, again,
differentiates the real
from the fake.
So it might be possible
that they are transferring
information not
just to the planet,
but also to people who
interact with them.
And it changes their lives.
Speaking of gravity, a
good friend of mine who
was a trance medium in England
who works with the police,
she actually
invected information
from a group consciousness.
And one of the
pieces of information
that they gave her was
that the crop circles,
you will find out through
your scientific community,
they are partly created with
the illusion of gravity,
which, of course, we're
going, how the hell are
we going to prove that?
It took about 15 years to prove,
but I think we finally did it.
They also mentioned
that there was
a lot of technological
information encoded
in these designs.
Some of them were used
visually as a symbol
to trigger the imagination
of certain scientists
around the world so we can
communicate through them.
And they will think that
this downloaded information
about anti-gravity.
Well, would you believe that
before I wrote this in the book
that they are three people
around the world that actually
have created three
dimensional versions
of this shape in their rooms?
One is in Oklahoma.
It's a good country, America.
[LAUGHS] You don't think
anything special happens here?
The other one is in Australia.
And then there's two other
physicists in England
who have actually built
this design as a three
dimensional model.
And they're saying, yes.
It actually defies gravity.
We're just waiting for
the right political moment
to bring this out in the
public because right now?
Not a good idea.
You know, things
have their own time.
Kind of like people who
develop water powered cars
and eventually
they're found dead.
You know, suddenly the
car just ran them over.
Their own car ran them over.
[LAUGHTER]
Amazing, isn't it?
The guy was just
changing the oil.
Funny how that happens.
And this is the
reason why I put this
on the front cover of the book.
Because I had the access to
the psychic material and I
knew what it would do.
And it was almost
like a prompt for me
to kind of do that because
then it put the idea
into these people's heads.
So I'm just the conduit.
And these people thought,
this is interesting.
Let's break it apart.
And that's how it works.
It works-- the symbol
works subconsciously.
And then they thought,
hey, I got really clever.
I just built an
anti-gravity device.
And that's exactly
what's the consciousness
was saying, that we
will work with people
in the scientific community
who are open to this potential.
And we will basically
help you move forward
your understanding of how
the universe really works.
Because you've hit a
wall in your development.
I mean, you're still working
with combustion engines,
for heaven's sake.
That's so old-- that's
so 21st century.
[LAUGHTER]
You know, we're
way ahead of that.
And, again, this also
encodes a very exotic angle,
by the way, because
these things are
built on multiple
layers of information.
On one level, yes, it's
a technological piece
of information.
The other one is this
little kink here.
The one thing that the skeptics
said, oh, it's got to be man
made.
Look, they made a mistake.
It's got to a bend in it.
Haha.
Well, actually that bend
is actually very strategic
because it's a specific
angle of 19.47 degrees.
And you think, what
the hell is that about?
This angle is describing
how energy becomes
matter in the physical plane.
Now let's take the
Earth for a second.
If you sit at the very
core of the planet
and you project a straight
line to the equator,
and you move that line
19.47 degrees north,
you hit the most active hot
spot on the face of the Earth.
In fact, it's
blowing up right now.
It's right next to
Kilauea volcano in Hawaii.
It's Mauna Loa volcano,
exactly at that latitude.
And literally,
what's happening here
is that the Earth is
sending up a spiral
of electromagnetic
energy and gravity,
and it basically when
it hits the surface it
manifests as the most active hot
spot on the face of the planet.
But we're not the only
ones where this happened.
Because if you take a
little travel to, let's
say, oh, Mars, the biggest
shield volcano in the universe
at 19.47 degree latitude.
The great red spot of
Jupiter, 19.47 degrees.
Oh, and the sun?
All those wonderful
solar spots that you get
and you got those
plasma discharges,
they all seem to come from
19.47 degrees of latitude.
So again, they're
trying to show us
how the universe works
so that we can become
more understanding of
the true nature of life
so that we can have an
evolutionary leap, as they
said.
Wherever you will
find a crop circle,
they always appear next
to ancient monuments.
Both the crop circles
and the sacred sites
communicate to each other
using these two exotic angles
of 19.47 degrees and 32.72.
It's as though the two are
having a two-way conversation.
And, for me, it's almost
saying it's evidence
that someone is
using natural laws
and guiding them under
intelligent control.
That's usually my argument
when I talk about who's
making crop circles.
I'm saying it's a
conscious source.
They have complete control
of the laws of nature.
And they can bend them at will.
And that's what they're
trying to tell us.
That there is a way you can
work with nature effortlessly
and you let nature do the work.
I'd say that's a fairly
interesting argument.
And, certainly, every genuine
crop circle obeys natural laws.
The first thing
that we learn to do
to distinguish the real
from the fakes was this.
This is a simple
circle four feet wide.
Not very, very big at all.
And you can see here the
mathematical progression
that nature used to create
the golden ratio spiral.
In fact, every real crop circle
is not perfectly circular
at all.
It's slightly oval shapes.
And you can't do that
very well with a piece
of wood and some string.
Takes a bit of effort.
But it also means that the
center of the crop circle
is never at the physical center.
It requires an iteration
point off center
so that the actual
spiral can define itself
in a near circular form.
And sometimes the central
point of the design
can be a few feet away from
its original physical center,
whereas if you and I were to
go out there with a stick,
you put in the center,
and you go around.
And it can be used to make small
circles like this or really,
really big ones, where the
center point is actually
20 feet away from
the physical center.
Now that's pretty hard to do if
you're going to make that again
with physical implements.
But that's not even the
bigger mystery of this.
The bigger mystery of this
is how quickly they actually
are made.
Here's one very,
very good example.
It's part of one
of seven circles
around the major central circle,
which I'll show you later
is part of a very famous story.
We actually predicted we
knew where it was going to be
and what it was
going to look like.
And if you can't see
here, what's happening is,
you've come from--
I'm now standing in the
center of the big circle.
This is one of the circles
in the periphery of it.
And what I'm showing
here is the way
that the plants have
literally flattened.
They've gone down in a
fraction of a second.
They're creating this
wonderful spiral.
And as they're doing so, they're
creating this wall at the back.
Now what happens here
is very interesting.
The spiral splits from itself.
It goes into two directions.
One goes this way
and this one actually
goes towards the center
of the crop circle.
So it's not made
from the center out.
It's made from the outside in.
Now that's quite
difficult, in my book.
But here's the good part.
The other part split
goes around this way.
It creates this perimeter.
It then splits here to create
another circle beside it.
And, as it's returning
to its point of origin,
the speed in which
it's being created,
the plants are still going
down when the other ones move
this way and the two
interlocked with each other
above and below.
When the physicist-- in
fact, he worked for NASA.
He said, that's fascinating.
Because in order to
have a spiral that big--
and it was over 100
feet wide, by the way--
in order to have that spiral
coming in and under itself
like a basket weave is if you
had a downtime of 1.5 seconds.
So it's really, really rapid.
And what we know from 80
eyewitnesses around the world
is that, yes, they occur
within 15 seconds regardless
of the scale.
So what happens to
the plants here?
Well, for one thing,
they're not damaged.
This is the whole center
of the entire mystery.
If you're going to plank this,
you would crash these plant
straight to the ground.
You'd create breakage, damage.
Sometimes when you do
it in less mature crop,
you can get away with
a lack of damage.
But still you're pressing
the plants to the ground.
Because I've been
in many crop circles
where I'm the first person
there at the crack of dawn
and the plants are actually
hovering above the soil.
They're not touching the ground.
They're actually
hovering like this.
There's a gap of
air between them.
And it feels really bad
when you're looking at this,
and you think, I've
got to do my work.
I've got to take pictures,
and measurements.
[LAUGHTER]
And you have to
take your boots off.
And you walk with
your feet, and you
can hear the plants being
pressed for the first time
to the ground.
I mean, it's magical
and yet, kind of
shameful at the same time.
It's kind of like putting
graffiti on the Sistine Chapel
ceiling.
It's that kind of feeling.
But here's the weird thing.
We began to notice that the
roots of the affected plants
aren't going towards
the center of the Earth.
If you're a gardener,
you'll understand this.
When you pull plants
out of the ground,
the roots are going that way.
In the real crop
circles, the roots
are pointing in the
other direction.
They're pointing
horizontally, suggesting
that the local gravitational
field may have been tampered
with, which is exactly
what they told us 20 years
before the phenomenon appeared.
That there was something to do
with the illusion of gravity,
as they called it.
The second thing that
happens to be your plants
in the genuine
circles, of course,
is that the plants themselves
are filled with liquid, OK?
So when you apply
energy to plants-- let's
say, sound and light.
Because when you throw
light and spin it
in an incredible fast
speed, it starts creating
a high degree of temperature.
And in this point,
the temperature
created in a very rapid 1.5
second measurement of time,
it generates a heating effect
of 1,500 degrees Celsius.
What happens if you transpose
that theory to a wheat field
is that the water
inside the plant
is super heated in a fraction
of a second, and it expands.
If you've made a
cup of tea, you know
that there's always bit
more water in the pot
before it boils.
And what happens is that now
the water has nowhere to go.
It's in an enclosed space.
So what does it do?
It looks for the weakest
part of the plant, which
is the knuckle.
OK, the plant's node.
Well, here, what's happened
is that the water has
gone to look for the
weakest part of the plant
and it's blown out of itself.
And this is why the farmers
who have witnessed these crop
circles--
usually around 4 in the morning,
after hearing strange sounds--
they'll say, well,
the first thing
we see is like a column
of vapor coming out
of the center of the field.
And they're absolutely right.
Because the water
molecule inside the plant
has been atomized.
That creates steam.
Here's a very dramatic example.
Heat has been used here to
flash burn the plant stems which
were lying on top of a piece
of a stone in the middle
of a field of a crop circle.
And you can still see
how the plants still
steam onto each stone itself.
The only way you can do that is
with Gorilla glue, which I know
wasn't happening here--
[LAUGHTER]
--or heat where the
plant literally becomes
melted onto another surface.
Fascinating stuff, isn't it?
It was worth giving
up my day job for.
[LAUGHTER]
Now let's examine the mechanics
to determine the process
of what's going on here.
I used to work with a colleague
of mine who passed away.
This phenomenon, by the way,
has a high level of death.
Most of the people
who research this
are either retired,
semi-retired,
or dead, and not because of
nefarious purposes either.
I don't know why.
It's just a weird thing.
It also has a very high--
I think like a 96% level
of divorce in this subject.
[LAUGHTER]
I think because we get so
passionate and so involved
in it that it's
like, eh, I'm going
back to doing what
I'm doing in my life.
You go and measure plants.
It's the way it is.
Sometimes you have
to give up things.
And so what I was
looking at here
was how do we measure the actual
frequency of the crop circles.
If these things are
electromagnetic,
there must be a way to actually
figure this out and measure it.
We've got the equipment today.
Well, one of the things
that we began to look at
was what's happening
with the actual soil.
We found a laboratory
in Cambridge in England,
and they actually validated that
there are unusually high levels
of nitrate in soil following
an appearance of a crop
circle, a real one.
And there's only two ways to
increase the nitrate level
in soil.
One is by the over
application of fertilizer,
which of course tends
to kill the plants.
And that's not what's
happening here.
And two is by administering
an extremely high
electrical charge.
Now, with this in
mind, we figured
that we'd go into
the crop circles
and we'd start measuring
the frequencies.
And that's what we did
for many, many years.
I would go in with my
little dowsing rods.
I'm a dowser as well.
Of course, no one really
wants to believe in dousing,
or few people do.
So in order to
convince the skeptics,
my colleague, Paul,
also deceased--
lovely fellow.
He developed his own little
what he called his gizmo.
And we'd walked down these--
track the lines together.
I would be over here.
He'd be over here.
And I'll be looking for
something very specific.
And the rods would go like this.
And he'd go, oh, blimey.
What's that?
He'd get a spike in
the actual readings
or the background
frequencies the moment
we'd hit the perimeter
of the crop circle.
So he'd be measuring the
background frequency, which
would be about 150 megahertz
in the middle of a wheat field.
It's pretty high.
But then again, we're surrounded
with so many cell phone towers,
and you expect a
lot of interference.
But the moment you cross
that perimeter, wow,
that's a big jump suddenly.
And then as you're
walking further down,
see how the readings go down
ever so slightly and then
back up?
And then down, and then
back up a bit more.
And then back down,
back a bit more.
It's like you're actually
looking at this, on a chart.
There's like a wave
form going on here.
But the closer you
get to the center,
the higher the background
frequency, to the point
where you hit this ring
here of about 500 megahertz.
You're halfway to microwave
basically, but not at the point
where it's actually
damaging anything.
In fact, at this
level of frequency,
it actually starts to
stimulate your brainwaves.
You start having altered
states of consciousness,
and that's something that occurs
again and again and again.
I thought that was pretty
cool, until you actually
step across this
invisible ring here.
Once you cross
through here and you
expect the meter to go way
over and above the scale,
actually there's nothing.
And we're both sitting in there.
And we're going--
[LAUGHTER]
It's like you're
inside this tube.
And, suddenly, you become very
aware-- you feel very naked.
Because you are very aware of
the next levels of reality.
I mean levels.
There's nothing separating
you between everything else.
You look like-- you feel like
someone's actually looking down
upon you and you
have no clothes on.
And the funny thing
is, when people
take their animals in
here, they actually
start getting a bit spooked.
They start looking
around like this.
Going, hm, something's going on.
And animals know,
better than we do.
And they'll know where
the hot spot of energy
is because they
always go and mark it,
as animals do, with a certain
cocking of the leg, which
is why it's very important
to take your soil samples
and plant samples
really, really early.
[LAUGHTER]
What's this substance?
It's very interesting.
Oh, no.
It's not.
[LAUGHTER]
And it's not where you
think it is, actually.
The battery for the crop
circle is actually-- there
it is on this particular one.
There's the hot
spot right there.
Nowhere near here.
Again, you can't take
any preconceived notion
into this research because
you will be disproved.
You have to go into this
with a very open mind.
It's like you're just learning
everything as children,
and you're being
led by the facts.
So, yeah.
This is where the dogs and
the cats would go in here
and mark their territory.
And then they'd
leave in a hurry.
They feel there's
a frequency there.
Nothing that it's nefarious.
They just feel threatened
by it because it's
a very high level of frequency.
And anybody that's also very
sensitive picks this up.
The other way you
can also figure out
that this is actually
happening in the real crop
circles and not
the man made ones
is that when you actually
take literally equipment
and in some of the cases
the frequencies are so high
they begin to interfere
with LCD displays.
Anything with liquid
crystal goes black.
And then there are the packs
of batteries that you take in.
And suddenly, all the packs
of batteries are dead.
Cameras fail.
And in one famous occasion
when the BBC crew came in
to film us, they
were across the--
they would be very
excited that they're
going to make these incredible
paranormal researchers look
very silly.
They were across the
perimeter of the crop circle.
And there'll be a very agonizing
array of red warning lights.
And $28,000 cameras
suddenly go, poof.
[LAUGHTER]
And we said, we told
you not to film inside.
This is why.
They'd bring another camera
and they would do it outside,
and the interview is perfect.
And then on a--
they forget.
Oh, I'll just go inside
and take some closeups.
Second camera goes in,
crosses the perimeter, poof.
Told you.
[LAUGHTER]
It's a very
expensive phenomenon.
[LAUGHTER]
But you know what?
Water and geology can also
generate an electrical charge,
too.
And it's kind of
funny, because when
we began to look at where the
main groups of crop circles
appear around the world--
which is not just southern
Britain, by the way.
The other 20% usually appear
around the Canadian prairie.
Today the real crop circles--
the few that there are-- appear
around Ohio, of all places.
Oddly enough, also
one of my mailing
list-- my biggest mailing
list is actually in Ohio.
We're seeing the regeneration
of mysticism in Ohio people.
This is good.
I mean, little Ohio where
you think very conservative,
I have more people coming
out of the woodwork
to presentations than anywhere
in the rest of the country.
I mean, it's actually
very encouraging
when you think that
actually people
like us are doing this in
small parts of the country
that you never hear of, and
they're doing good stuff.
So it's actually very
reassuring and positive.
So we began to track where
do the crop circles appear?
Well, they appear in
this particular band
in the south of England.
And they're representing a
specific type of geology,
and that's chalk.
OK, we have the
deepest chalk aquifer
in the south of England.
In the next biggest
concentration,
by a huge margin, is
the Canadian prairie.
Well, that sits on
limestone, which
is a chemical twin of chalk.
And there is a
disproportionate relationship
here of crop circles
relating to this geology,
and also sources of water.
Not just the aquifer,
but rivers, ponds.
Wherever you find crop circles,
they want and need the water.
87% of them reference
sources of water.
Now water in itself
is not a conductor
of electrical
currents unless it is
saturated with an alkali,
such as dissolved chalk
or limestone.
That was the first
thing that we noticed
about the relationship,
the strategic relationship
of the placement
of these things.
Now chalk and limestone
are both composed
of billions of sea creatures.
And all of these
little creatures
contain small pieces
of magnetite in them.
But they are also piezoelectric.
So when you compress
limestone and chalk,
you create a building
of static pressure,
which creates a natural
static charge in the land.
And that's why you also
find so many sacred sites
on the same geology, like
at Giza, southern Briton.
They also are looking for
that natural electrical charge
already present on the ground.
So the net effect of
pressurized magnetites,
together with energized
to the groundwater,
is the creation of a
low magnetic field.
And that's what makes
southern Britain,
in particular, one of
the world's largest
natural conductors
of electrical current
and, again, why so many
thousands of sacred sites
exist around here.
In fact, wherever
the crop circles
appear in 29 countries
around the world,
they have always referenced
the local ancient sacred sites.
They're trying to
tell you something.
And it was something that
eventually led me to, well,
writing the books
that I have now
based on the development
of this topic.
And it's been in
education in itself.
Because the sacred
sites, by themselves,
happen to be without exception
all located on the Earth's
telluric pathways of energy.
Not ley lines, by the way.
Very different things.
I'm just talking about
the energy currents that
flow through the Earth, just
like human beings have arteries
and veins, the Earth has
the same thing, as well.
And coincidentally,
the crop circles
also appear exactly on
the same energy lines.
So there is a relationship that
they keep trying to tell us.
They're trying to
tell us that something
about the sacred
space that we've
stopped using for a
few thousand years,
the crop circles are now
referencing the sciences there.
You should be paying attention
to what they left here
a long, long time ago.
And it is indeed
true that the two
share the same
electromagnetic pathways.
This particular weird
looking ant design
which, again, we first thought,
oh, it's got to be a joke.
[LAUGHTER]
It can't be real.
It turns out it's
the real thing.
You look at the
bends in the nodes.
You look at the energy.
You look at the samples.
Yes, it is the real thing.
And there's also a line along
the pathway through that
field-- and only in that field--
where there's a
major energy current.
We don't even have to measure
it because the farmer came out.
We-- someone-- actually, there
is a bit of a funny story.
Because usually
we get permission
from the farmer to go in.
And we thought we had actually
been given permission.
We spoke to one of the
people at the farm.
And they said, OK, you can go
in and that'll be 10 pounds.
All right, 10 pounds.
We'll go in.
Just leave us alone.
While we're in there writing
things, sitting in this design,
a very angry guy with
a red face runs down
with overalls, with
his hands like this,
and says, oi, get off my land.
And I said, are
you by any chance
the actual owner of the farm?
He said, I be that man.
[LAUGHTER]
That guy down there had
just taken 20 of our pounds,
and he's impersonating you.
Crop circles are a
great way to make money.
[LAUGHTER]
So he said, really?
I'll be having a
word with them later.
Oh, by the way, did
you know that this crop
circle is one of the--
it's one of those what
you call energy lines.
I said, really?
He said, yeah.
I mean, my dogs act really
weird when they walk
across the top of the hill.
And you can tell where they
are because the ancient tree,
the druids planted
the trees there,
to tell you where the
energy is going to end.
It goes to the other side.
And we went, let's measure this.
And he was absolutely right.
So, again, the farmers
are so tapped into this.
And once you make
friends with them,
they become your best allies.
We thought that was kind
of fun until I thought--
well, actually, no.
I was standing in
the middle of this.
And, again, you
start downloading
information you
think it's coming
from your own imagination.
After a while, you realize
you're being fed the lines.
And they're saying,
why don't you
measure the bends and the
angles of these lines?
And I thought, oh, why not?
While I'm here, I've
got my measuring thing.
I've got my compass.
Would you believe that
this design actually
references this entire array
for 40 square miles of all
the local ancient sacred sites?
And you, in a valley, you have
no idea where these things are.
I had to go and get a
map to figure this out.
So that's an
extraordinary amount
of referencing that's going on.
And, again, it's point--
it's telling us--
they're trying to focus
on the ancient places
that we inherited for
thousands of years
for some unspecified reason.
So none of this can be
seen from the ground.
You actually have to
actually go and do the work,
or you have to work
with a satellite.
So whatever is
happening here, there's
an airborne component
to this phenomenon.
And, indeed, talking to a
lot of the eyewitnesses,
and they talk about the
beams of light coming down,
rotating the crop, back
up again in 15 seconds,
we began to actually do studies
looking at the magnetic fields
of the designs.
Because if light is involved,
then electricity and magnetism
have to be involved, too.
This is a very dramatic
example, again,
of a simple design which never
gets anybody's attention.
And I believe that's
because they don't actually
enjoy all the frivolous activity
that goes with crop circles.
It becomes a tourist attraction.
That's not what it's about.
It's like, every
year I hear about,
well, that was a great season.
I can't wait for
the next season.
But that's not what it's about.
It's not a performance.
This is a piece of
serious communication
that's taking place here.
They're not here to perform.
So they make the
simple ones to allow us
the time to actually
make big discoveries.
And what you're
seeing here, these
are the printouts from
the magnetometer survey.
So you're dragging a
magnetometer over the area.
And this shows that the
area inside the crop circle
has a heightened
magnetic activity.
And you see how
it relates pretty
much to the actual
flattened area.
If you transpose
that into a 3D graph,
that's actually
what it looks like.
That's your heightened
magnetic field.
And it seems to pretty
much reference the way
that this has been flattened.
So these little advances,
you know, year after year,
slowly teaching us how
these things are working,
begin to tell us that
there is a resonance field.
Because when we began to
measure outside the designs,
we began to realize that
the energy isn't just
contained inside.
It's rippling outside, like
throwing a stone into a pond,
and the ripples get weaker and
weaker the further away you
go from the design.
They behaved like
peaks and troughs.
That are high points
and low points.
And there is also radiation
and soil composition
that fluctuates in
tandem with these higher
and lower frequencies that
are measured inside the crop
circles.
So the more you veer away from
the epicenter of the design,
the weaker the signal becomes.
And, therefore, it is feasible
that these are fingerprints
that are left by
an energy source
as it hits the ground
from an aerial component,
and it creates a
kind of shock wave.
And we kind of like that theory
because it's a process that's
known in physics.
Here's a diagram which
shows a vertical wire.
A wire that carries
an electric current
has an associated
magnetic field whose field
lines are detected as a
series of concentric rings.
However, the field
strength is actually
reduced the further
it gets from the wire.
As soon as we figure this
out, another crop circle
appears to describe that
that's what's happening here.
Because this has actually
taken place under high tension
electrical cables.
Because there was
one theory that
was being proposed by the
skeptics with their media
allies that while the crop
circles are made by balloonist
and they come from above,
and the balloons come
to the ground, and the
other shapes that you see
are the baskets of
the balloon rotating.
[LAUGHTER]
Any balloonists here?
Any people gone up in a
balloon with a basket?
And you have to go around
with a basket several times
and create a perfect
circle without any damage,
and they got--
well, this refuted the
theory quite quickly.
Prior to doing that,
your feet would
get pretty hot in your
basket pretty quickly.
[LAUGHTER]
But guess what?
This is the weird thing that
I love about this phenomenon
because not only did
the crop circle appear
under electrical
cables, the energy that
seems to come from above
has carried along the wires,
it's reached its first
point of grounding,
which is at this pole, the
energy has gone down the pole.
And look what's happened here.
The energy discharged
has created
a pattern that's kind of similar
to what's happening here.
But that was not deliberate.
That was a byproduct of
the energy coming down here
in the first place.
That's why it looks a
bit shoddy, you see?
So, again, the details
are very important,
and you're got to keep
looking at this stuff,
because they keep giving
you the information.
It's right in front of you.
[LAUGHS]
Those of you who are following
my conspiracy that sheep
are taking over the world,
this is the latest piece
of evidence.
[LAUGHTER]
This is a very rare
photograph that
was taken with a very long
lens, working undercover,
and it shows the Armored
Division of the sheep spotted
during secret maneuvers.
[LAUGHTER]
I've had this
theory for 15 years.
And you know what?
It's coming true.
Beware of the sheep conspiracy.
[LAUGHTER]
Let's look at how do you go
about making a crop circle?
Some crop circles
link to each other
and provide a story that
describes their very function.
They actually work like
a kind of triptych.
If you look at the
clues and the way
that some relate to each other,
you think, wait a minute.
Those three belong together.
And here are three that came
over in one particular season.
Because each season
had its own message.
And we began to realize that
every season if we, as humans,
understand what they're
trying to tell us,
they'll up the ante
the next season.
There's never a dull moment.
It's the taking on a sort
of premeditated course,
if I want to say this.
So these three
particular designs
kind of got my attention.
There's a relationship
between them.
I couldn't explain
it at the time.
And I took a look at
this one first here.
It's a beautiful,
beautiful design.
And it actually began to tell us
about the shielding effect that
happens around the
perimeter of the design.
The design itself, it actually
suggest a spinning wheel.
And if you actually look
at the importance of spin
in the creation of matter,
it's important to know
that the spinning
vortex is actually
capable of generating
its own magnetic field,
particularly if it happens over
water, which itself is also
a conductor of electromagnetism,
as we saw earlier.
So spin is very much
a part and parcel
of how the crop
circles are created.
But you can create its
own magnetic field.
And it turns out that
this particular shape
is called a hysteresis loop.
To put this in
layman's terms, it
is a curve describing how
a non-magnetic object,
such as a plant, is
given a magnetic field
strength by manipulating
the local magnetic field.
And such a change can be used to
either repel or contain energy,
making the crop circle act like
an invisible electric fence.
At least the perimeter anyway.
And as I mentioned before,
as I have found out
and as TV cameras
have found out,
electrical equipment is
interfered with precisely
at the moment you enter the
perimeter of the circle.
Here's a lovely example of how
this energy field is really
highly contained
within the perimeter
and is used to create really,
really sharp, fine detail.
In fact, some of
the small details
are so priceless you actually
don't even want to touch them.
That's number one.
Then there is this
particular design.
There is actually a
subtle gravitational shift
in crop circles.
It took us a while to figure
this out because gravity is
still a very unknown subject.
The first clue was
exemplified by the way
that the plant's roots are
pointing the wrong direction.
Something has happened here that
shouldn't be doing in nature.
Obviously, some adjustment of
the local gravitational field
is taking place.
And how this is done is
the biggest of mysteries.
But when these Japanese
scientists finally came over
to England, they did
detect a four degree
shift in the local gravitational
field in the real crop circles.
And, clearly, this
was a major-- in fact,
a monumental discovery because
it was actually validated
by the circle makers
with this design,
which appeared exactly as it--
yes, it appeared
exactly the moment
that they are presenting this
at a conference 10 miles away,
this thing appears
in broad daylight.
And it actually
shows how a stand--
the standing wall
of the crop circle
has been shifted
exactly four degrees
to create this vortex shape.
So, again, the validation
is always happening
again and again and again.
And this is what I
call peer review.
[LAUGHTER]
Don't wait for published.
Just present it and, oh,
and someone just ran in
and they said, you won't believe
what just happened in a field
about 10 miles away from here.
It's actually-- I think
it's proven your theory.
And they went, oh.
[LAUGHTER]
There were great.
So is it being suggested
here that the four degree
shift enables energy
or information
to flow between worlds?
Are we shown-- are we
being shown the mechanics
of an interdimensional window?
Maybe.
Because consider for one
second that all crop circles
appear between 2 and
4 in the morning.
We didn't know why until
I had a conversation
with the high ranking person at
the London College of Medicine.
And usually when you come
up with a conversation
of crop circles
at dinner parties,
you don't get invited again.
[LAUGHTER]
And I wished I hadn't
opened my mouth.
And he was looking me kind of,
now, that's very interesting.
I said, oh, thank god for that.
And he said, well,
actually, it's
interesting because if all--
are you saying all crop
circles appear between
2 and 4 in the morning?
I said, pretty much, with very
rare daylight occurrences.
He said, what?
Is that-- is that meaningful?
Meaningful?
95% of all reported hospital
deaths occur between 2 and 4
in the morning.
Big silence.
Like, wait a minute, 2 and
4 in the morning, that's
the part of the Earth that's
furthest from the gravitational
pull of the sun, which means
the gravitational field is going
to sleep for a couple of hours,
which means that the soul is
allowed to leave, and
information enters the Earth.
And I thought, now that's
a good dinner conversation.
[LAUGHTER]
The Native Americans
call that the sipapu
reed, the reed of heaven.
And you find those in the kivas.
So there's some truth
to this, as well.
In fact, it just
literally harmonized
thousands of years of
traditional understanding
of how energy works.
They actually call it
the reeds of heaven
and how the crop circle
mechanism works with gravity,
and when it's lying and having
a little sleep of its own.
And, in fact, that four
degree shift, it turns out,
it's actually referencing what
is perhaps the most famous crop
circle.
It really galvanized people
around the world back in--
I think it was 1989.
My memory's starting to
get a little bit fuzzy.
[LAUGHTER]
All those ratchets are literally
moved exactly by four degrees.
And this is the
diagram that was used
to create those anti-gravity
designs I talked about earlier.
And thirdly and lastly, there's
the use of sound and light.
These two particular
spirals can be
interpreted as transverse
waves of electromagnetism.
In other words, how the
electricity goes in one wave,
magnetism goes in
the other wave.
It can also be a
representation of human DNA,
except human DNA does not have
that line going through it, OK?
That does not belong
in human DNA at all.
There's this transverse
line of circles.
So why are these circles there?
It's not about DNA.
It's all about something
very different.
Well, this is where you start
looking at electromagnetism,
how it behaves in waves.
Sound, on the other hand,
does not travel in waves.
It travels longitudinally,
in straight lines.
And then I recently discovered
the sound waves are not just
linear, they're also spherical.
So what the point, they're
trying to tell us here,
is that we have two transverse
waves, going around each other,
creating a kind of
tube, electromagnetism
creating a tube.
And within that tube,
there's a sound vibration.
For most crop circles
that have appeared,
there exists a corresponding
geometric image
created by a sound frequency.
Back in the '50s
when a man called
Hans Jenny was doing
exactly the same experiment,
throwing sound at
sound and water,
he would then film the results.
And he built up a library
of geometric shapes created
by sound.
Would you believe that someone
who is born in Portugal,
becomes British, emigrates to
America, lives in Portsmouth,
New Hampshire, ends up living
next to an American who
ended up with a library of Hans
Jenny, who was a Swiss guy, who
was doing cymatic experiments.
[LAUGHTER]
And they helped me to
validate the crop circles are
made by sound after
they'd mentioned
this in a psychic
communication 15 years earlier.
I love how this
stuff just works.
So back to DNA.
The shape of this
crop circle actually
suggests that the central
components of the crop circle
is a rotating tube of energy.
And it's tightly packed
electric and magnetic spirals,
kind of like a light beam
enclosing a sonic element.
In fact, you can see this
here in the laboratory,
that they tried doing this.
And this is a ball
of light, of plasma,
that's generated at
a high speed, frozen
in a fraction of a second.
And they've found that
while it's actually
creating the spiral motion,
they found that inside there's
a sonic component.
When they reversed
the process, they
began to throw sounds
into a laboratory.
And when sound reaches 40
octaves above the human hearing
range, it created
a burst of light.
The phenomenon called
sonoluminescence.
It's the conversion of
sound into light frequency.
So sound and light are literally
essentially part and parcel
of the same phenomenon.
So when you put these three
crop circles together,
they actually reveal how
the crop circles are made.
You have essentially a
descending particle wave
of electricity, creating one
spiral, a magnetic particle
wave creating the second spiral.
You have-- inside this tube
is a longitudinal sound wave.
And when that sound
wave hits the ground,
because it's going
to disperse, you
have a shielding effect that
keeps it within the design.
And it's that four
degree magnetic shift
that allows the
information to come
from upstairs to downstairs, and
you've got your geometric shape
in the ground.
And these are the beams
that are essentially
envisioned by 80 eyewitnesses
around the world.
And here's a picture of it.
Except when I took
this photograph--
I hope you can see this.
There's a beam here.
This is back in the days
when film was being used.
[LAUGHTER]
And there's a second beam.
I'm not sure what
was happening there.
But I'm a professional
photographer by trade, as well.
And I was sitting on a hill five
miles away, reading my notes,
having a little picnic.
And, you know, you get that
voice in your head that goes,
yeah, pick up the camera.
My spirit guides are like
Arnold Schwarzenegger.
They sound like them.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah, pick up the camera.
Well, you know, I don't
remember taking a picture of--
I didn't see a beam of light.
I took the picture
and I went, well,
that was a stupid picture.
What a horrible event.
2:00 in the afternoon, you
don't take pictures at 2:00
in the afternoon.
The landscape doesn't
look very good.
And then I had it
developed, and I went, oh,
what the hell is that?
That looks like my
back of my camera
has been fogged because that's
the first reaction when you see
a picture shot with
film, the light
has intruded from the
back of the camera.
So I checked the negative.
No.
The negative is true.
There's a top and the bottom.
I've captured two
beams of light.
I sent it to Kodak.
I said, what's going on here?
They said, well, as
quite obvious, duh.
You've filmed sunlight.
I said, no, no, no.
2:00 in the afternoon.
There's the sun
at-- well, that's
the edge of the sun over there.
It's actually way,
way over here.
If I'm going to photograph
beams coming from the sun,
I would expect beams
coming this way.
I don't expect them coming
downhill at 90 degrees.
Not the same thing.
They said, well, you got--
then you got-- you got UFOs.
I thought, well, maybe.
[LAUGHTER]
Now gets really weird.
So I'm at the pub--
sorry, the research
facility the next day.
[LAUGHTER]
And in England, you don't--
strangers don't usually
talk to each other
unless they've been
formally introduced.
And I kept a low profile
when I was working there,
mostly because I hate
getting into arguments
with people in pubs.
[LAUGHS] I like
to enjoy my drink.
And two because sometimes
people approach you
with really interesting
information.
And there's a woman there
that looked a bit perturbed.
And I thought, are you OK?
She said, well, I need to talk
to someone about something
that happened yesterday.
Well, yeah, sure.
Yesterday, I was taking
my dog for my afternoon
constitutional--
that means a walk.
[LAUGHTER]
My afternoon
constitutional and there
was a sort of tube that
came out of the clouds.
I went, what?
Yeah, it came down
on top of the wheat
and it rotated the
wheat in 15 seconds,
and then it rotated
back up again.
My dog was barking at it.
And I was totally
flummoxed by this.
And I went there
for a walk today
and there's a great big
crop circle right there.
I went, in 15 seconds?
She said, yeah, absolutely.
I said, OK, well, that's
pretty consistent with what
I've heard so far.
And I pulled out the--
I said, what time of
the afternoon was this?
Oh, about 2 o'clock
in the afternoon.
And I pulled out the picture
with a time stamp, 2 o'clock
in the afternoon.
I said, that's towards
[INAUDIBLE] right there.
That's where you were walking.
She said, that's exactly
where I was walking.
So I filmed what this woman
actually saw in real life.
You can't make this stuff up.
Wonderful moment
for her, I believe.
Here's what she actually saw.
I mean, absolutely beautiful.
In fact, that's us measuring.
We're actually doing
work there, for a change.
[LAUGHTER]
That's us measuring.
In fact, these things actually
go back all the way to--
well, they go back
to the 1680s, 1920s.
And there was a moment
when a farmer in Kent
in England, he was out looking
at his crop in the middle
of a bit of a rain.
The rain tends to happen in
England fairly frequently.
[LAUGHTER]
He was out there in
1965, and he sort of
was just checking his
barley or whatever.
And suddenly, he said, this
tube just came out of the sky,
rotated the crop in front
of him about 50 yards away,
and then it went back up
again in 15 seconds, flattened
the crop like a
pancake, he said.
And says, I know I
wasn't making this up.
I could see the rain bouncing
off the edges of this tube.
Farmers don't talk like that.
They really don't.
And there's been many
very rare occurrences
when things have happened
to innocent people
in broad daylight.
This is very famous from 1997.
4 o'clock in the
afternoon, a pilot
is requesting permission
from the local airfield--
it's a military airfield--
permission to land.
And they pass just around
here, next to Stonehenge.
They don't report anything.
Permission to land.
Absolutely granted.
And it lands.
15 minutes later, a Cessna
comes by with a doctor on board,
says, we'd like to--
permission to land.
What the hell is that?
[LAUGHTER]
That actually was
the conversation.
And they-- you
know, in 15 minutes,
someone had created
a 149 circle spiral.
Every 15 minutes, the guards who
go around Stonehenge up here--
one of the world's
most visited monuments,
with hundreds of people--
they go around checking
from a higher vantage point,
has anybody jumped the fence?
And trying to get in
without paying the Queen her
rightful 10 pounds?
Nothing.
They go by at 4:15.
They look down into
the field, and they
go, what the hell is that?
Here, and because this
only happens in England,
this is the major
highway in England.
One lane going that way.
One lane going this way.
That's a major highway.
[LAUGHTER]
Some guy in a taxi
sees a tube of light
at 4:15 in the afternoon,
coming down into the field,
creating a massive vapor column.
Freaked him out.
Slams on his brakes.
Stands in front of
the hood of this car.
If you're English, that's
called a bonnet, just
in case this is going
out internationally.
Stands on the bonnet of his
car and basically goes, wow.
And we know he
wasn't making this up
because he caused a 15 mile
tail back on that one lane.
So he actually saw the
actual thing happening.
And, again, 15 seconds or less.
So the question is, why this
is tend to happen to, you know,
southern Britain?
You know, 80% of the world's
registered crop circles
appear in this particular
small part of Britain.
Well, it happens along
a degree of latitude,
which is about 51 degrees,
which if you're into the bigger
scheme of things,
is the slope angle
of the Great Pyramid of Giza.
There is a relationship--
I'm going to go into that some
other time, another lecture.
One reason, of
course, is the water
and the chalk of which this
region is predominant built on.
Secondly, there's a high
concentration of sacred sites
and energy lines there already.
For me, the most
important reason
is that they're doing
it because of this.
[LAUGHTER]
The best beer in the world.
But once we began to
make the connection,
we began to realize
that there are--
the greatest concentrations
of crop circles
occur in the general area
around Avery and Stonehenge,
in this one area of
about 400 square miles.
When we actually look
at this particular area,
and you put down on this
map the telluric currents,
in other words, the Earth's
electromagnetic currents,
and plot them, you then
superimpose the position
of the existing stone
circles, standing stones
and other temples.
You get these little dots.
You can see how they
reference the energy lines.
But when you plot the real
crop circles and the temples,
look at the relationship.
They're all occurring on
the same lines of energy.
So, obviously, there's a
relationship going on here.
So we figured, what if the
phenomenon is conscious?
What if you can actually
communicate with it?
Well, one of the early
guided experiments,
we got together with
astrophysicists,
mathematicians,
psychics, engineers,
laypeople, and we paid
the farmer and we said,
we're going to make a
crop circle according
to certain geometric and
mathematical principles,
and we're going to
meditate, and we're
going to connect with
the circle makers
in a guided, scientific,
closed experiment.
And the farmer said--
he just walked away.
[LAUGHTER]
Just pay me 200 pounds.
Off he goes.
So this is what happened.
The design over here.
It was actually created
as the most possible
geometric mathematical
expression
of a piece of communication.
Mathematics and geometry
are the language of nature.
So if an extraterrestrial
force is doing this,
they would understand
what we were doing.
The trick is, we weren't just
going to do any old diameter.
We're going to make the
diameter of the design
according to the most famous
unit of measure, which
is called a megalithic yard,
which few people know about.
This is the unit
of measure that was
used to make all the ancient
temples around the world.
And it's very specific
because it measures 2.72 feet.
There's your megalitihic yard.
And it's derived from
the measurement--
the surface ratio of the
tetrahedron and the sphere,
which are the two building
blocks of the universe.
Everything that
exists in the universe
is based on those
two building blocks.
How the hell do they know?
Another story.
So what happened was
they meditated on this.
The intent was to connect
with the circle making force
and hopefully elicit a response.
Would you believe that
two weeks later that's
exactly what happened?
They took the balls
on the outside
and they put them
inside the triangle.
And we know that it was true,
because the diameter that they
created it, was exactly 100
times the megalithic yard,
literally down to
the decimal point.
We thought, wow,
what a great feeling,
that you connected with this
extraterrestrial consciousness.
So we got a bit sort of--
well, I wouldn't say
cocky, but confident,
that let's see what's
happening because there's
a lesson each season.
So by 1999, I'm getting
a bit confident.
And I'm thinking, what if
we can predict where they're
going to be for this year?
So in 1999, I
conducted an experiment
across both sides
of the Atlantic,
where I asked mathematicians,
computer experts, psychics,
one layperson, just for fun,
and then I would tell them,
I want you to tell me where
the big one of the season
is going to be.
I want you to tell me
where it's going to be.
Around about what time?
In terms of day.
And also, if possible, what
is it going to look like?
And would you believe-- and
this is a closed experiment.
They don't know the
answers to this.
Only I know the answers.
And all the responses that
I got were exactly the same,
or pretty much the same.
They're going to be around
this town of Devizes
in Wiltshire in England.
It's going to be around
this particular day,
and they're all within
48 hours of each other.
And it's going to feel
like a nine point--
well, it's going to look
like a seven pointed star,
but we are also getting
a sense of nine.
And I thought, that's
good enough for me.
So I put that in
a sealed envelope.
And then we began to
work with local psychics
to figure out pretty much,
you know, what kind of time
we would do it.
Because if we
figured out the time,
we could catch
them at it finally.
And we got it down
to within 24 hours.
So it's going to
be in that field,
within this particular
day, in the morning.
So I figured, OK.
I'm going to call my pilot.
And I'm going,
without telling him
where we're going,
we are going to say,
right, Tony, I want you
to book me this Microlight
to fly at this airfield
at 8 in the morning.
And I'm not telling
you where we're going.
It's an experiment
and you're part of it.
Oh, thanks a lot.
[LAUGHTER]
Real skeptic.
And that's all.
So we got together in
my humble little straw--
actually, that's not a straw
built cottage, a thatched roof
cottage.
And, you know, we'll prepare
with blankets, and gallons
of brandy because it gets--
it really does get really,
really damp and cold in England
in the middle of the summer at
night, night vision equipment,
and other Russian things that
they smuggled across the Iron
Curtain.
We figured we finally
going to catch them at it.
We've got a high vantage point
over the field in question.
We're finally going to do it.
11:30 comes around, and
it's like someone just
put a pallet of sleeping
gas into my living room.
And all I remember
is people just kind
of dozing off, and
just falling over.
And I'm one of them.
And I remember a good friend
of mine who's no longer here,
she's going, come on,
we've got to go, Freddy.
Drive the car.
We've got to get out of here.
I said, oh, god.
It's like someone
just sat on my head.
I feel really, really tired.
Next thing I remember,
it's 7 in the morning.
And I suddenly woke up with
a jolt. And I thought--
I won't explain
what I said then.
[LAUGHTER]
And everybody's still asleep.
And I thought, I'm not
going to disturb them.
Got in my car, drove
like a European--
which is about 90 miles per hour
in a 20 miles per hour zone.
[LAUGHTER]
And drove to the airfield.
Covered in fog.
Tony is there, going,
you're not thinking
you're flying out in this.
I said, yes, we're going
to this particular field
next to Devizes.
He said, are you looking
for a crop circle?
Perhaps.
There's nothing there.
Not in that area.
I was the last pilot.
No one's going to make a crop
circle in that short of time.
Well, maybe.
Just humor me.
All right.
It's foggy.
We're going to be flying around.
It's going to cost
you a fortune.
Eh, OK.
So we flew around.
There's a bit of
the fog right there.
Banks of fog everywhere.
And the clock is ticking and
my money is leaving my wallet.
[LAUGHTER]
And we're going around,
and around, and around.
And, you know,
it's a Microlight.
It's a big flying
gas tank basically.
And he's in front of
me with his helmet.
And I've got my helmet.
And it's going around.
And, suddenly,
they-- it just parts.
This fog just parts.
And this is what we saw.
And all I heard was--
[LAUGHTER]
How did you know?
I said, you don't want to know.
And there we have it--
seven pointed star, twice.
There's a seven pointed thing.
And there is an nine
pointed geometric element
that you can't see here.
And it's created by the area
where the crop was literally
turned around 180 degrees and
reversed course on itself.
So they were right.
There was a seven
pointed geometry,
and a nine in there somewhere.
They were all absolutely right.
And the idea was-- and we got
the information afterwards.
I ran back-- well, I
drove back to the house.
Everybody had got up.
And they said,
right, was it there?
You won't believe what
we just discovered.
I can't believe we missed this.
And one of my friends, again,
a very good psychic, she
says, well, I was told the
reason why they stopped us
from going last night
is because they just
laid down the most
potent crop circle ever.
If we'd been anywhere
there within the vicinity,
we would have been
absolutely fried.
In the meantime, I get a phone
call from a friend of mine.
And he goes-- he phones
me up and he says,
I'm standing about
3/4 of a mile away.
I've gone as close as I can.
16 packs of batteries
just went dead.
Don't go near this thing.
The readings are off the scale.
He just validated what
the psychic just said.
So they said, we wanted
to let you know that you
can communicate with us.
But sometimes the crop
circles are not meant for you.
They're meant for something
else, like the Earth.
So if it tell-- if it says
to you, don't come close,
don't do it.
That's your way of knowing.
If you don't feel well,
it's not meant for you.
I thought that was impressive
until we came across this one.
I was just minding
my own business,
flying over the crop circle,
taking aerial photographs.
And what should have been
a nice strip of photographs
right over the crop circle
complete black frames.
Nine black frames and this
rainbow picture in the middle.
I can't explain that
as a photographer.
And then the camera dies.
If you can just squint--
it's hard to see.
If you can just squint, you
can see a face in there.
I went to the channeling
session with my good friend
who was doing the work with
the crop circle makers.
And I said during question
and answer time, I said,
what have I actually
captured here?
And I didn't say anything else.
He said, what you've
actually captured, my friend,
is a picture of a
Shining One, a Watcher.
What the Hopi and the
Zuni called a Looker.
And they said, you
know, you humans
don't want to believe
that you're getting help
from other sources.
So sometimes we have to make
things very, very blatant
for you.
Unfortunately the
way we do things
fries your little black boxes.
Refer to my Nikon
that no longer works.
[LAUGHTER]
And they were absolutely right.
But they also said
that, you know,
often we lower our
operating frequency
to a point where you
can actually see us
in your level of reality.
And you see us as
brightly colored orbs.
Here's one film that was
shot by eyewitnesses.
Here's the orb.
There it is.
I've slowed this down
to 20%, by the way.
This is-- this is real thing,
not like the fake stuff that's
going on the internet of
orbs making crop circles.
That's a complete
fake film, by the way.
And it's in my book.
But there it goes.
Again, 20% of speed.
It's flying very, very fast.
The cameraman is having a hard
time trying to keep up with it.
We know it's a real
one because it's
about to reach a closed
off military installation
and all the helicopters
took off because they
thought they were being attacked
by an unknown flying object.
[LAUGHTER]
That's how we know.
Yeah.
The barracks are about to
come into focus right here.
Look at that.
Unbelievable.
There's the secret
military installation.
I can't show you anymore.
I'd have to kill you.
[LAUGHTER]
Here's another one.
I was just minding
my own business.
Looking at this.
Looking at it from here,
what's happening here.
There's one.
And there's another one.
I had to slow that
down quite a lot.
Sorry these are not
very great quality.
These were shot with
very old cameras.
I'm going to circle it.
Yeah, there it is,
flying over the field.
They look like bright
pearls in the daylight.
In the evening, the color is
of a description I can't--
I have no words for.
The luminescence
is extraordinary.
They're very mischievous.
They have a sense of humor.
They tend to tell
us, well, we're
going to be appearing at
this particular hot spot.
And we'll go out there and
go, well, look at them.
Or they'll appear behind us
when we're doing a night watch.
[LAUGHTER]
Just to sort of
keep us guessing.
Very, very mischievous.
The evidence links the orbs as
an expression of consciousness
that is made visible
with the crop circles.
It's not actual UFOs.
They're not physical at all.
They have been contacting
gifted, sensitive, even
tribal wisdom keepers
for at least 40 years
before the phenomenon
really began to appear.
And what the
watchers were saying
is that we're going to appear at
the base of your hill of light
in seven days time.
They told this to
my psychic friend.
And she had no idea what
the hell was going on.
The hill of light
refers to Silbury Hill.
That's what it actually means.
It means the hill of the
Shining Ones, or the Watchers,
by any other name.
And that's the first
series of crop circles.
And that's when we realized
That the communication was
absolutely real.
And the stated purpose
that they were saying
was that they're here to encode
energy forms at pressure points
on the Earth that
will help humanity
evolve during this
evolutionary period.
That's verbatim communication.
They also stated that
they have incarnated here
on Earth at pivotal periods
in early human history.
But they always found
it difficult to be
in physical form.
So the Watchers developed
appropriate physical bodies.
And they're saying, we were
the tall ones in your cultures.
And we are the
ones who are buried
in the giant's graves,
which you still
find throughout northern Europe
in Britain and in Ireland.
And they are actually
still called giant graves
to this very, very day.
And because in all nature,
form follows function,
they also had to
develop unusual heads.
They said that we had to
develop the cranium at the back.
We had to have a more
developed spiritual brain.
And that's why we
had a long heads.
Humans require a
bigger frontal dome
because you have to
process information.
And they're absolutely right.
And to this very day,
the back of the brain
is still the most mysterious.
So the consciousness of
this planet, they say,
has hit a critical mass.
And the crop circles
are an expression
of that consciousness.
It is a co-creative
interaction between us
and several
interdimensional realities.
And these entities
are always here.
They're just not in
physical form anymore.
So we are getting an expression
of these dimensions in the crop
circles.
And each design is an expression
of a different interplanetary
consciousness, just like
we have a myriad of races
here on Earth.
So what do the Watchers want?
Well, I want to close
off today's presentation
with part of the directed
channel communication
because they say it so
much better than I can.
And this is what they said.
Within the energy
pattern of the circles,
we give you information.
You humans do not believe
your dreams and inspirations,
so other methods
have to be used.
This will happen by
the right people being
drawn into the understanding.
Amidst all its
struggles, humanity
does not seem to want to
accept that love, great--
it's always against
me every single time.
It's so powerful.
Humanity is not one to accept
that love, great and powerful,
is encircling the world
and being transmitted.
It is most essential to
create the right atmosphere
for enlightenment into the
grid system of your planet.
Those who bring
knowledge are here again.
We are known as Watchers because
we can only aid and help.
Your Earth cries
with tears, and we
feel the pain and sorrow of
humanity's misunderstandings.
We have not the will
to change the world.
This, my friends, is your work.
So do not always look
upward, for there
is much to love below.
And for the rest of this very,
very complex and fascinating
story, have I got
some books for you.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you very much.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE
CONTINUES]
[MUSIC PLAYING]